# Architecture of Javy

This document is intended to provide an overview of the architecture of `javy`.

## Crates

```mermaid
flowchart TD
  javy-cli --> wasm
  subgraph wasm[javy_core.wasm / javy_quickjs_provider.wasm]
  javy-core --> javy
  javy --> rquickjs
  end
```

We anticipate most changes will be to the `javy-cli` and `javy` crates.

### `javy`

The entrypoint for working with Javy as a library for third parties. This crate
is intended to compile to `wasm32-wasip1` and provide ergonomic APIs for
configuring a QuickJS-based runtime. If there is a configuration option for
QuickJS that would be helpful, this is the place to add it.

#### Important concepts

- `javy::Runtime` - a configurable QuickJS runtime.
- `javy::Config` - a configuration for the runtime.

#### Example

This is a contrived example of how to make a change. If I want to add
a configuuration to set a global variable called `javy_rocks` to `true`, I would
do the following:

In `crates/javy/src/config.rs`:

```diff
  /// A configuration for [`Runtime`](crate::Runtime).
  #[derive(Debug)]
  pub struct Config {
+     pub(crate) set_javy_rocks: bool,
  }

  impl Default for Config {
      /// Creates a [`Config`] with default values.
      fn default() -> Self {
          Self {
+             set_javy_rocks: false,
          }
      }
  }

  impl Config {
+     /// Sets `globalThis.javy_rocks` to `true`.
+     pub fn set_javy_rocks(&mut self) -> &mut Self {
+         self.set_javy_rocks = true;
+         self
+     }
  }
```

In `crates/javy/src/runtime.rs`:

```diff
+        context.with(|cx| {
+            if cfg.set_javy_rocks {
+                let globals = cx.globals();
+                globals.set("javy_rocks", true);
+            }
+        });
+
```


Read the `config` and call the appropriate methods on `context` to apply the
configuration.

#### When to add a `cargo` feature

You should consider gating your feature by a Cargo feature when your feature
would materially increase the size of the produced Wasm module.

These are guidelines and we're willing to discuss if a feature needs to be gated
by a Cargo feature on a case-by-case basis.

### `javy-cli`

The CLI for compiling JS to Wasm. This isn't intended to be a CLI that
accommodates all uses for all users but rather to provide a useful base of
functionality. 

#### When to add a `cargo` feature

You should gate your feature with a cargo feature if your feature/change:

- Is not commonly going to be used and it would complicate the CLI options to
  include enabling it. For example, printing the `.wat` of a dynamic module is not
  something users would want 99.9% of the time and including it as an option on
  the CLI would make the `--help` output harder for most users to understand.

- You want to have integration tests in the `javy-cli` crate that should only
  run when the `javy-core` crate is built with a non-default configuration (that
  is, with different cargo features enabled). For example, we introduced the
  `experimental_event_loop` cargo feature in the `javy-cli` crate since we test
  for different expected outputs when using a promise when the
  `experimental_event_loop` cargo feature is enabled on the `javy_core` crate
  compared to when that cargo feature is disabled.

### `javy-core`

Gets compiled to `javy_core.wasm` and `javy_quickjs_provider.wasm` for use by
the CLI and in environments for running dynamically linked modules. This isn't
intended to be used as a code library by third parties. Contains logic for
driving the `javy` crate for Wasm modules generated by `javy-cli`.

#### When to add a `cargo` feature

You should gate your feature with a cargo feature if you want to support
building a Wasm module with an experimental configuration of the runtime. We do
this for the event loop because the current implementation has not been
thoroughly vetted. We also need a build of Javy with event loop support to run
a number of web platform tests for text encoding.

## `npm` packages

### `javy`

A JS library providing ergonomic helpers around the lower level APIs for I/O
exposed by the `javy` crate.
